Hello everyone, and welcome
to your first general challenge lecture.
So, I'm really excited for you to take on
this first general challenge,
because these general challenge tests
are gonna utilise all the skills that you've learned so far.
You'll receive the general challenge task
and you'll get hints to the challenge and then
the solution to the challenge.
These challenges are gonna be a little more difficult
than what you've seen earlier so try breaking down
the problem into individual tasks
in order to solve the task completely.
So, let's go ahead and get started.
Your first challenge and business task
that I want you to answer is this,
how many payment transactions
were greater than $5?
Again, just, what's the number of accounts
of how many payment transactions were greater than $5?
Okay, coming up next are the hints,
so go ahead and pause the video now
if you don't wanna see the hints yet.
Moving onto the hints,
so you'll need to use the payment table
and you'll also need to use count and where
along with some sort of comparison operator
in order to distinguish what's greater than $5.
So just keep that in mind.
Okay, coming up next is the solution.
So, the solution is actually pretty straightforward.
You wanna select count amount from the payment table
where the amount is greater than five.
So let's take it a couple of concepts,
just a general concept of selecting from,
that very first thing we learn.
Then the concept of counting the amount column
and then using where along some sort of comparison operator
to filter out which amounts we were looking for.
So again, that was select the counts amount column
from payment table where amount is greater than five.
Remember to put that semi-colon in to end your query.
Okay, next business task.
How many actors have a first name that starts
with the letter P?
Again, how many actors have a first name
that starts with the letter P.
Okay, coming up next is a hint.
So go ahead and pause the video now
if you don't want to see the hint yet.
Okay, here comes the hint.
So, you'll to use the actor table in order
to answer this question and you'll also need
to use the like statements and some sort
of wildcard operator such as the percent sign
or the underscore.
So, go ahead and review the like lecture
if you need any refreshment, or refresher
on how to use that % sign or underscore wildcard operators.
Okay, coming up next is the solutions to this challenge.
So, here it comes.
So the solution is select counts and in this case
I'm just selecting all the rows,
you can see an asterisk here
and that's because I just want to count basically
all the rows from actor where the first name column
is like, and this is where it gets a little tricky,
but you have to say like, single quote, capital P,
percent sigh, quote.
And that's because, what's good happen here
is you're gonna say select the count asterisks,
meaning just count all the rows from actor where your first
underscore name column is like P percent sign,
meaning where the value of first thing column starts
with a P.
OK, so go ahead an review that solution,
makes sure you type it out yourself, in case you weren't
able to get it.
But coming up next is one other challenge task.
So here comes.
OK, your next challenge is how many unique districts
are our customers from?
That's many unique districts are our customers from.
OK, coming up next are some hints on how
to solve this challenge.
So here comes the hints slide.
so you'll need to use the address table,
and you'll also need to use counts and distinct.
So go ahead and use the distinct lecture in case you don't
remember how to use distinct.
But you'll that in order to solve the challenge which was,
how many unique districts are our customers from.
OK, so coming up next is the solution.
So go ahead and paused the video now
if you don't wanna see the solution yet.
OK, here comes the solution for it.
So the solution was to select count distinct
district from address.
So, this gonna basically do this,
it's gonna say select, and if we start from the inside here,
it's gonna grab all the distinct districts.
So that means if you have, for instance,
a district called, Alberta, if you have it several times
throughout that column, so several rows have
the value of Alberta, and that this district column,
what distinct gonna do is just select all the unique ones.
so it means I'll just filter it down so Alberta
only shows up once, or that particular district
always shows up once.
And then, what count is gonna do is just count
all those distinct districts.
And that's basically gonna give you the answer
of how many districts, or unique districts
are the customers from.
And you have to get that from the address table.
OK, so one more challenge.
I want you to retrieve the list of names for those
distinct districts from the previous question.
So this is gonna be be a really similar question.
I just want you to make sure you really flush out
your understanding fully and just retrieve the list
of names for those distinct districts
from the previous question.
OK, here comes the hints.
So again you need to use the address table
and really strong hands, this is gonna be very similar
to the previous challenge solution.
So, you should really only be editing,
basically, one word.
OK, so hopefully can get it but if you don't,
go ahead and pause the video now and try to get it.
And now are we're gonna do the solution
so here comes the solution for it.
The solution is to basically just remove that count.
So if you just say select distinct district from address,
you won't get the actual number count,
you'll just get that list of the distinct districts
that the customers are from.
OK, hopefully you're able to get that.
Another challenge here is how many films have a rating
of R and a replacement cost between $5 and $15?
That's how many films with the rating of R
and the replacement cost between $5 and $15.
OK, go ahead and pause the video now,
try to solve this challenge on your own using
your SQL querying skills and up next are some hints
on how to solve this challenge.
OK, here comes the hints.
So the hint is you'll need to use the film table
and you may also need to use between and a where statement
with some sort of comparison operator in order to solve
that issue of between five and $15.
Hopefully, word between earlier was a clue for you too,
in order for you to figure that out on your own.
OK, so those are the hints, go ahead and pause
the video now, if you want to attempt
the problem on your own, but coming up next is the solution.
OK, here comes the solution.
So the solution was to select count asterisks,
so just select the count of all the rows from film,
where the rating is equal to that string R.
So single quote R, single quote,
and replacement underscore cost column,
is between five and 15.
Notice I don't put strings between five and 15 because
they're both just the numeric datatypes.
OK, so it's go ahead and break this down
just a little further.
Sometimes it confuses people why you have to just select
count asterisks here instead of title or something.
and that's because by saying count asterisks,
you're basically just saying, count the number
of rows returned, which makes sense because
it doesn't matter what column you select
you're still gonna be counting the same number
of rows there.
So you're saying just select the count of the number
of rows from film that get return when you select
the rating is equal to R and the replacement cost
has to be between five and $15.
OK, so another challenge.
This one's gonna maybe a little trickier,
testing your own pattern matching skills.
How many films have the word Truman
somewhere in the title?
So that's how many films have the word Truman
somewhere in the title.
OK, so coming up next are some hints,
go ahead and pause the video now if you don't want
see those hints yet.
Here comes the hints.
So you'll need to use the film table in order
to solve this and you'll also need to use like
with some sort of wildcard operator.
So again, you can review the like lecture in order to
get an understanding of how to use those wildcard operators
in case you've forgotten.
Right, coming up next is the solution.
Here it comes.
so the solution is to select count asterisks.
Again, we just want to select the count of the number
of rows returned from film, where the title column
is like and this is where maybe it was
a little tricky for you.
But remember, the question asked, if we just go back
to slides here, it asked how many films have the word
Truman somewhere in the title.
So not the beginning, not at the end,
just anywhere in the title.
And that means we had to use wildcard operators
on both ends of Truman,
meaning any number of characters or any sequence
of characters can come before Truman
and that includes spaces, and any sequence characters
can come after Truman.
OK, so that was the solution.
So select count asterisks from film
where the title is like, and then single quote,
percent sign, Truman, percent sign, single quote,
semi colon to end that query.
Alright, great job.
Hopefully you found those challenges straightforward,
a little tricky but not too hard.
It should've been pretty basic.
What we're gonna learn from now on
is going to really up your skill level in SQL,
learn how to do joints and GroupWise,
which are some really powerful SQL statements
and that'll really take you to a much more
professional level understanding of SQL and the ability
to use poster SQL database in order to do some
real professional queries.
OK, thanks everyone, hope you enjoy those challenges
and I will see you at the next lecture.
Thanks.